Welcome back, folks. hopefully during this Lenten season,
You're getting to know yourself a little better. You may not like what you see, but it is a good project.
To know thyself.
One of the most discouraging and yet wonderfully illuminating part of the journey to self-discovery,
Is to uncover what I often will call.
The ache
The psalmist
A claim that we live
In a dry and weary land.
Where there is no water that's out of Psalm 63.
What he was simply saying is that we humans need more than what this world,
Has to offer.
That we all long for something beyond this place.
Which means that there's nothing on this planet that can really quench
Your thirst.
A thirst that's deeper than.
Physical,
Uh,
There's nothing that can really satisfy your hopes, right?
Or meet your expectations.
The bottom line,
And this is not
A happy thought, but on some level,
Your life and my life will always suck a little.
And that gives birth to what I call the ache. The ache is that, um,
Unsettling gloom?
That we bump into deep within the sort of dark corridors of our souls
It shows its ugly head, usually whenever we get quiet.
Or silent
Or lonely.
Or tired
Or hungry
Or board
Or when we feel rejected or stressed out, it's It's the thing we often call a discontentment.
Or despair.
And it arises in us. I mean, the truth is we all ache.
2020 St. M. Center.
Or eight.
It's it's um.
The ache is like the ambient noise.
In the background of
Any environment. it's always there, but we don't always notice it until we really listen. just for a minute, just stop.
Listen.
You're hearing sounds maybe from the heater or
The lights
Things that you don't usually notice until you really listen.
That's where you start catching this ink thing. You go ahead and turn off the TV and the radio and the computer and the phone and just sit.
Sit still.
Ha.
We're just not used to stillness.
And you'll discover that the ambient noise in you seems to intensify. sometimes it's almost.
It's almost deafening.
It's like that with the ache. Though it's always there, we don't notice it until we get quiet. Once we hit a place where we're stunned by light,
my life and we're sort of thrown on our back foot or we sit in the wake of disappointment or we hit smack into a place of boredom.
And the ache intensifies.
um i think.
It's the main reason why most of us avoid
Quiet and silence.
What's critical, though, is what we.
We do with the ache.
Once we sense it.
Many are so afraid of their inner discontent that they try to ignore it, or they just try to drown it out with other other noises.
You know, noises like working harder or whatever.
Buying a new couch or surfing the Internet or playing video games or watching too much Tv, etc, others try to anesthetize the ache,
With inappropriate and sometimes destructive activity, like roaming into fantasy or lust or eating whole cases of Twinkies or going out.
going on unnecessary shopping sprees or participating in events.
Compulsive behaviors like drug or alcohol abuse.
See,
Where do you run?
When you feel that
Aaky thing inside
I wish I could say that
The ache completely leaves us when we come to Jesus.
But it doesn't.
it does happen when we cross the threshold of faith um that we get insight that can help us channel the ache into something positive.
there.
But the Christian way of life does not resolve our inner aching.
I mean, I know that there are lots of Christian people who claim they never experience anything other than eternal bliss in their souls, that every day when Jesus is so.
It's sweeter than the day before that their faith is always ecstatic and unwavering, glorious, you know, the bubbles inside them and their bosom.
bosoms all the time, always clean, forever effervescent.
and that they never
Are encroached upon with doubt.
Ah
But
They're lying.
Or heavily in denial.
See, I believe that that we should be.
Really open about and recognize.
I would even suggest we should protect and even cherish.
That ache.
It's in us as a gift.
If you keep in mind that the ache points us to eternity,
You will want to protect it and cherish it because it's filled with the promise of encountering God for those of us that will tolerate,
The pain of it, right?
Um,,
Here's some positive things to do with the ache. I mean, you can practice identifying the ache.
When it's most present, in times where you're tired or hungry or angry or disappointed, identify and say, wait a minute.
I'm just concerted here. Something.
Something's off here and you're not freaked out by it, or think you're not saved because of theirs. it's part of you.
So identify. and then secondly,
Watch which direction it pushes you. You're looking for the wisdom that's in this.
One of the reasons I think God forgives us so easily and doesn't make it a big deal is so that we can look back and say, what actually happened so that we can gain some wisdom? What do you do when
You knew when you ate, you'd just...
Turn on the Tv and veg out. Do you entertain yourself with sinful thoughts? Do you jump into criticism? I mean, what do you do?
Watch what happens, right? it's important to gain the wisdom of what you get triggered to, the places where you hide,
When things don't feel right inside you and recognize.
That is your way.
That's what you do. it does. I mean, it's probably not appropriate necessarily, but the ache is there. it's what you do. then,
Watch um the pattern
Of how this works in you so that you can recognize it and then move.
To look for the grace
That will help you refuse what you normally do.
Especially if it's being naughty, right? And then reinterpret that ache, instead of it being the thing that triggers you into evil, where you go, I know this, I know this.
This, I have to do this. Oh, I know this. I'm going to buy another chair. Instead of doing that and giving up, say, God, I need your grace to reinterpret that ache as a reminder
Finder.
Of the fact that I have this deep need for God.
A reminder that I'm living in a land where there is no water, or at least the kind that will really quench me, remind us of the fact that we will always have a longing for something,
19, different than what's here. There's a longing for the loss of Eden, right, on some level, and a longing for the new creation. You read the end of the book.
from the book of Revelations, it describes this time when God and human beings will be together. There's something in us that's tattooed in our souls, that wants that.
So that, and so we have this ache for that. The ache isn't for evil, right?
It's just...
There.
Reinterpret it
And then ask God for help to embrace the ache in a way.
That will help you stay motivated to receive the grace.
So that you can do appropriate grace-filled activities.
See, when the ache comes into marriages or friendships or jobs, lots of people run.
Um, when it does, and they run into things that are destructive, like a divorce or distancing themselves from others or just quitting the job. But what if,
What if we're to see the ache?
As a call.
To get fresh legs at a.
And a new heart, a new perspective, with God's perspective.
And then if we have ache in the marriage, we just don't write it off. And we say, wait a minute. There's an ache. Your marriage will never fulfill me completely. But how can I bring God's
Hard into it. how can I bring? How can I bring an appropriate way of friendship into this friendship? all friendships on some level enter the level of the suck. They all have problems.
But instead of just abandoning them, saying, God, as I feel the ache, help me lean into you and show me what to do. Show me the next right thing, right? A job, a job.
Um, but the circumstances walking into those things with a.
With the fruit of the Holy Spirit.
We're walking with love
Enjoy and peace!
And kindness, which means you're disposed of showing favor.
And goodness and self-control. In other words, looking at our lives, and when we enter those places of achiness, instead of just letting the ache spill us into
Things that are wrong, we start looking for the right thing, righteousness.
It's really just the next right step. And then lastly,
Recognize that you will ache
Till you die.
You'll never...
Get fixed from the ache.
You'll always continue to struggle till then. the good news is the process of the ache,
If you process it with your faith,
You'll end up struggling well,
Instead of struggling,
Badly.
Christians
Are not perfect people.
We're a redeemed people.
Which means God is committed to sort of
Composting our garbage
Growing a garden from it, right?
But we, we're an achy people.
We live in a world that's broken, and we all come from the land of broken toys.
Knowing this,
We'll keep you humble before God.
And it sort of keeps us kind toward outsiders who are acting badly, right? Because we know that that they may be struggling badly, but that doesn't mean that
In that, we are
That God won't move in their lives. See, we may not be able to save the world ourselves, but we can show people,
An alternative way to deal with the ache.
One that highlights the role
Of the one
Who does say?
So let's take a few minutes.
Gather around the tables.
And let's talk about this.
And talk about this issue of the ache and what you do with it.
We'll see you back.
On the big screen
next week.